# Laravel DB Encryption Package


## Package for encrypting and decrypting model attributes for Laravel using Laravel's Crypt

Most of client wanted to encrypt their database.
So encase a person got access to database, they won't see the actual data of it.
BUT the problem is, developers will have difficulty searching encrypted data when they need it.

The purpose of this project is to create a set-it-and-forget-it package that can be
installed without much effort to encrypt and decrypt Eloquent model attributes stored
in your database tables, and most of all able to search encrypted database fields
using `whereEncrypted` and `orWhereEncrypted` functions similar to laravel eloquent's `where` and `orWhere`.

## Key Features

* Encrypt, Decrypt database fields easily
* Minimal configuration
* Include searching encrypted data using the following:
    `whereEncrypted` and `orWhereEncrypted`
* uses Laravel's Facades `Crypt` for encrypting and decrypting fields

## Requirements

* Laravel: 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, or 5.8
* PHP: 7.1, 7.2, or 7.3

## Schema Requirements

Encrypted values are usually longer than plain text values, sometimes much longer.
You may find that the column widths in your database tables need to be altered to
store the encrypted values generated by this package.

We highly recommend to alter your column types to `TEXT` or `LONGTEXT`

## Installation

### Step 1: Composer

Via Composer command line:

```bash
$ composer require JoeselDuazo/laravel-db-encryption
```

Or add the package to your `composer.json`:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "JoeselDuazo/laravel-db-encryption": "^0.318"
    }
}
```

## Usage

Use the `EncryptedAttribute` trait in any Eloquent model that you wish to apply encryption
to and define a `protected $encrypted` array containing a list of the attributes to encrypt.

For example:

```php
    
    use DustApplication\Database\Encryption\Traits\EncryptedAttribute;

    class User extends Eloquent {
        use EncryptedAttribute;
       
        /**
         * The attributes that should be encrypted on save.
         *
         * @var array
         */
        protected $encryptable = [
            'first_name', 'last_name'
        ];
    }
```

By including the `EncryptedAttribute` trait, the `setAttribute()`, `getAttribute()` and `getAttributeFromArray()`
methods provided by Eloquent are overridden to include an additional step.

## Searching Encrypted Fields Example:
Searching encrypted field can be done by calling the `whereEncrypted` and `orWhereEncrypted` functions
similar to laravel eloquent `where` and `orWhere`.


```php
    namespace App\Http\Controllers;

    use App\User;
    class UsersController extends Controller {
        public function index(Request $request)
        {
            $user = User::whereEncrypted('first_name','john')
                        ->orWhereEncrypted('last_name','!=','Doe')->firstOrFail();
            
            return $user;
        }
    }
```

## NOTE
The use of encryption searching is for small group of data only (approx 100K).
Using it on large amount of data rows will affects the performance.


## Frequently Asked Question

### Can I use other encryption other than crypt?
No for now, but we may include it on next update

### Can I search encrypted data?

YES! You will able to search on attributes which are encrypted by this package because.

If you need to search on data then use the `whereEncrypted` and `orWhereEncrypted` function:

```
    User::whereEncrypted('email','test@gmail.com')->orWhereEncrypted('email','test2@gmail.com')->firstOrFail();
```

It automatically added on the eloquent once the model uses `EncryptedAttribute`

### Can I encrypt all my `User` model data?

Aside from IDs you can encrypt everything you wan't

For example:
Logging-in on encrypted email
```
$user = User::whereEncrypted('email','test@gmail.com')->filter(function ($item) use ($request) {
        return Hash::check($password, $item->password);
    })->where('active',1)->first();
```

## Credits

This package was inspired from [austinheap/laravel-database-encryption](https://github.com/austinheap/laravel-database-encryption)


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
